And this video we'll learn about the center update manager and how it can be used to keep ESX hosts
virtual machines VM are tools virtual hardware versions and all of those sorts of via VM where vs fair
specific components.
Up to date that's the purpose of update manager is to perform patches and upgrades for VSE fair components.
Automate Patchen version management for VSE fair.
It supports ESX I host virtual machines and virtual appliances and it must be registered with the VSE
center server.
Now some of this is going to get a little bit different as we delve into these spheres 6.5.
But if you're running the Windows version of the center you can go ahead and install update manager
right on that same machine.
So if you're running the center on a Windows virtual machine you can install update manager right on
that same virtual machine.
If you're deploying the center server appliance version 6.5 it's bundled directly with the center server
appliance you don't have to install anything.
So really easy to manage.
Everything is manageable right through the web client and 6.5.
So 6.5 is a big step forward for update manager versus prior versions that it's 100 percent web Klein
integrated 100 percent bundled with the VSE center server appliance and of course keeping your environment
properly updated and properly patched mitigates a number of risks by reducing vulnerabilities and by
providing bug fixes.
So let's take a look at how Vee's centers update manager works.
And here we've got the V Center server appliance on the right.
With Update Manager baked right into it it's built right in and then on the left we have our center
inventory.
They've got some ESX I hosts that are part of a cluster and we've got virtual machines.
One of the first things that we need to establish with our center server is download sources and there's
a couple that are built right into it by default.
But just think of your download sources as anywhere that you need to download patches and updates from.
For example you know we have critical host updates and non-critical host updates we need to get those
from VM Ware.
So that's our download source for those particular patches as VM were and those patches will become
part of a baseline.
Right so here we see the critical host updates baseline and that includes any patches that VM or deems
are critical host updates.
Right that's what we call a dynamic baseline a dynamic baseline is one that automatically gets updated
with new patches or a fixed baseline.
That's a specific set of patches that does not change unless we manually change it.
So we've got our baseline right.
Our critical host updates baseline and we now need to actually attach that baseline to objects.
So we're going to attach it to our cluster of ESX hosts.
I could attach it to my hosts individually or attach at once to the entire quarter and that will allow
me to apply that baseline across the entire cluster.
And at that point I have the ability to scan that cluster.
Right.
So when we scan it's going to expose which patches are already installed and what you're not and what
you'll see an update manager is that we'll come back and say this host is not complying it it that means
this host is missing some of the stuff that's in this baseline.
It doesn't mean that they're not compatible.
If they're not compatible it'll tell you that I will say not compatible not compliant means this host
could use some of the stuff that's in the space line.
Right.
So after we scan our host to see which patches they have and which patches they don't we can then remediate
and push out those updates.
And like I mentioned there's a few different types of baselines right.
We've got an upgrade baseline for example upgrading a host from ESX 5.5 to ESX a 6 or 6 to 6.5 we can
upgrade virtual hardware or VM or tools.
And then we've got dynamic in fixed patch baselines and like I mentioned on the previous slide those
dynamic baselines will change on the fly as do patches come out whereas fix have to be manually modified
and then if you've got additional drivers for example that you need to to install you can use an extension
baseline.
Right.
So for example let's say you have a Cisco U.S.'s blade server that requires a specific storage Dr. I
can't install that on a group of hosts using update manager and an extension baseline.
It's an add on of six.
It's an extension to the ESX I image.
All right.
So now we've learned a little bit about Update Manager and we understand that we can use update manager
to update or even upgrade our ESX hosts but our ESX I host those are our physical servers and we have
many virtual machines running on those ESX I hosts.
And so if update manager starts working on performing some sort of upgrade or patching it might need
to reboot those hosts.
And we don't want this to be service impacting.
We don't want our victims to go down.
So one of the beautiful things about Update Manager is the fact that it is integrated with distributed
resource scheduler or diarists So update manager will actually leverage Diyar diyas to ensure that there
is no service impact during our updates.
So for example here is our critical host updates baseline and I've attached that baseline to these hosts
that are part of a cluster and I am now scanning those hosts for compliance with that baseline.
And look at that both hosts are imaging missing patch to both hosts or missing patch 2.
So these hosts are not compliant with my baseline.
And at this point I can choose to remediate those hosts.
I can choose to install those patches.
And what you will do is this.
Let's say that ESX 0 2 gets remediated first well is x.
0 2 is going to have to get rebooted and before it can get rebooted it needs to enter what we call maintenance
mode.
If you put a host into maintenance mode what that essentially means is no virtual machines can run on
this host.
Its in maintenance mode it should be able to power it off without creating any problems.
So if I have a host that currently has virtual machines running on it like ESX C02 does in this picture
if I try to place that host into maintenance mode the IRS is going to recognize that thats going to
say hey they're trying to put ESX C02 in maintenance mode lets evacuate all of these Reems migrate them
to other hosts first then the host gets placed into maintenance mode.
And then all of our patching and updates or whatever needs to get done can get done.
It can reboot and it won't affect any virtual machines and when it's done the host simply will come
out of maintenance mode and the next host will continue right.
ESX 01 will get patched next.
When that host is placed in maintenance mode the VMS will be evacuated back to ESX zero or two
so that's pretty cool because it means that you can run updates even in the middle of the day if you
want right.
If you've got your Wii motion network solve all figured out and there's no incompatibilities and everything's
like figured out in good shape you could run update manager in the middle of the day and go and let
it update all your hosts with no downtime.
Or you can also schedule remediation with an update manager.
So if you want to happen at midnight you can do that right.
It's no problem you can schedule remediation as well.
All right.
So Update Manager centralizes and automates patch and version management for VSE fair on ESX I host
virtual machines and virtual appliances on your VM that can update VM our tools and I can update the
virtual hardware version
update manager uses baselines which are collections of patches or upgrades or possibly host extensions
that can be applied.
And then we can scan our objects for compliance with Update Manager update manager is built right into
the V Center server appliance as of these fair 6.5 and we have are three different types of baselines.
We have patches upgrades and extensions and patch baselines can be either fixed or dynamic.